# Notes on SE Linux

File permissions are foundation for protecting files and data in linux and in general securing linux systems.

## Keywords

- Policy
  - Rule
- source domain
- context labels: Managing SELinux context labels is a key skill for securing systems with SELinux.
  - access rules

### Keypoints

- To active SELinux reboot is required.
- when SE Linux is loaded, software which are aware of the SELinux, changes their behavior
- Modes of operation
  - enforcing mode - access is blocked.
  - permissive mode - no access blocked. But everything is logged. It is logged at /var/log/audit/audit.log

## Configuration tips

- to set selinux while **booting** edit /etc/selinux/config file. The setting in this file represent the persist state of selinux
- to check the current status of selinux use getenforce (how to remember, is there a 'en' (enterprise) force? let me check using get-en-force)
- you can temporarily change the selinux state using `setenforce 0` for permissive mode, `setenforce 1` for enforcing mode.

```bash

[vagrant@procky ~]$ getenforce 
Enforcing # a default mode.

```

If the sestatus -v shows enforcing mode is disabled, the setenforce command does not work. Strange, it does not even tell this

```bash
# i have disabled the /etc/selinux/config by editing the file and reboot the server
grep ^SELINUX= /etc/selinux/config 
SELINUX=disabled

# now let me show you, what i meant. I want to configure selinux in permissive mode
sudo setenforce 1
setenforce: SELinux is disabled
# above message is not much help.
```

### Configure context in selinux

step:01 - Install semanage. You first find semanage using

`dnf whatprovides */semanage`

step:01 - Configure directory of your interest

`sudo semanage fcontext -a -t httpd_sys_content_t "/var/sugrancontent(/.*)?"`

*Info* : During the exam, you can use man page e.g.
*man semanage-fcontext and the search for the example*

Step:02 Step01. you create a policy. It needs to applied to the file system. For that use restorecon

`sudo restorecon -R -v /var/sugrancontent/`

Step:03 Check if everything is implemented as expected

```bash
[vagrant@procky ~]$ ls -ldZ /var/sugrancontent/
drwxr-xr-x. 2 root root unconfined_u:object_r:httpd_sys_content_t:s0 6 Dec 24 19:59 /var/sugrancontent/
```

Info: When you create a file inside /var/sugrancontent/ it will inhereit the settings.

Continue the notes: selinux_25-12-2023.md
