# Date 20.12.2023

## Handlers

Handler is also a task but it is executed only when the task with which is
associated is successful.
When you want to associate a task with a handler, you use notify. You can list handlers
in notify. Just ensure that notify name and handler name is matching.

Handlers runs only when the task against which notify is defined has changed status. Refer
example under folder handlers_failures.

> Note, handlers are executed at the end. So if any tasks fails between the handlers and tasks, handlers is not executed. Handlers are purely extension of task, once task is successfull, use handlers to do something. But remember, it is executed always at the end. If something fails in between, handlers are not executed.

### Key Topics

- Handlers are executed in the order they are written.
- Handlers can executed even if the tasks fails using either `ignore_errors: true` it applies to
  entire playbook or you can use `force_handlers` in the play header. As this is specific to handler, it is preferred approach.
- force_handlers does not mean, handlers will run even if things have not changed. e.g. if apache server is uninstalled, then handlers will run. But if you run the playbook again, handler will not run because apache was already uninstalled. refer playbook in folder handlers_failures

## Notes

- Tasks in the playbook are executed in the order they are written. So it your responsibility to  understand and write tasks in specific order to meet the dependencies.
- Tasks generate three different types of failures.
  - ok
  - changed
  - failed
  